We need to generate a dataset of simulated data, scikit-learn offers many methods for creating simulated data. Of those, three methods are particularly useful: make_regression, make_classification, and make_blobs.
When we want a dataset designed to be used with linear regression, make_regression is a good choice, If we are interested in creating a simulated dataset for classification, we can use make_classification.
Finally, if we want a dataset designed to work well with clustering techniques, scikit-learn offers make_blobs.
As might be apparent from the solutions, make_regression returns a feature matrix of float values and a target vector of float values, while make_classification and make_blobs return a feature matrix of float values and a target vector of integers representing membership in a class
scikit-learn’s simulated datasets offer extensive options to control the type of data generated. scikit learn’s documentation contains a full description of all the parameters, but a few are worth noting.
In make_regression and make_classification, n_informative determines the number of features that are used to generate the target vector. If n_informative is less than the total number of features (n_features), the resulting dataset will have redundant features that can be identified
through feature selection techniques. In addition, make_classification contains a weights parameter that allows us to simulate datasets with imbalanced classes. For example, weights = [.25, .75] would return a dataset with 25% of
observations belonging to one class and 75% of observations belonging to a second class. For make_blobs, the centers parameter determines the number of clusters generated. Using the matplotlib visualization library, we can visualize the clusters generated by make_blobs.


 
